# Jazz are struggling

The Jazz needed lottery luck, but alas nothing. After a year of tanking, the odds were in the favor of the Jazz, Wizards, and Hornets in acquire the top picks in the draft. In an unexpected and devastating outcome, the Jazz are now placed in the 5th draft position. Well outside Cooper Flagg range, and, even worse, outside of the top four group of prospects. After the initial four, there is a hodgepodge of similarly rated players. This equivalence dillutes the top 5 pick as equally valuable as the top ten pick, drastically reducing the trade value of the Jazz's first first-round pick. So after this utter disappointment what do the Jazz do from here? There are so many possible proposals:

## Continue to Tank
To continue in the direction of the past three seasons would be nothing new; although Jazz nation is starting to lose patience in trusting this process, especially after the results of the lottery. Tanking is not a real guarantee of a top three pick, let alone top one, as the Jazz would have had if the draft followed NFL rules. The lottery system has failed, ever since the rules change to prevent tanking, in promoting the worst team by record to the first draft position. This is a discussion for another day. Overall, it is difficult to embrace tanking as fully when there is actually a greater chance of acquiring the 5th pick (48%), then any of the top four picks. The true goal in a cointinued tank is a possible top pick of a talented 2026 class which includes future BYU produced AJ Dybantsa, Darryn Peterson of Kansas and maybe the Boozer twins.
### Continue to Tank- Trade Up
How could this work? There are three players worth trading up for. Cooper, Dylan, and VJ. Ace Bailey is a great player but probably not worth the move, especially when he has recently expressed disinterest in playing for a team like the Jazz. 

In my opinion, a Cooper for Lauri trade straight-up is more than just and beneficial for both teams. On first instinct, Dallas might scoff at such a motion. But a frontline of Anthony Davis and Markkanen holding the fort might be enough to earn a playoff-bid next year (see Clippers 2024-25), just in time for a potential Kyrie return. Cooper might have more upside, but as a rookie there will be growing pains and he isn't a proven commodity. If you look at the past ten drafts, seven have made all-star teams, so one could conclude that Cooper most likely will end up atleast as a solid all-star level player sometime in his career. If you ignore, the anomaly of Wembanyama, and the solid development of Paolo, the burst of Ben Simmons, the rest of the seven #1 picks took time and some years to develop. If you preclude Ben from this list of three, as inspired as his wonderous, awe-inspring regression, only two players in the past ten years qualify as immediate all-stars. Any other pick, will require atleast three years to hit their stride, and a stride is not their peak (ANT). Markkenan is in his prime. He is ready. He is an all-star player. In the short-term, the Jazz are losers in this deal. Davis is 32, Irving is 33 and hopefully healed coming off a tough injury. If the Mavericks are hoping to strike now, the 28 year old is the safe bet. For Jazz fans, it would hurt to lose a fan favorite who actually enjoys the state, but the fan base most likely would celebrate Flagg with his accompanying potential and synchronized timeline. Kessler, Hendricks, Flipowski as bigs, Flagg as a wing, and Collier and George as the guards could pose as future threat in the west. Granted that there is **significant** development of each of the aforementioned players. This does not include the Jazz having the #5 pick (maybe a PG, SG or Wing like Tre Johnson, Kon Knueppel, or Jeremiah Fears. It is doubtful VJ falls to #5). It also does not consider the talents of Sexton and Collins. Sexton should stick around as an energetic, hard-working, example-setting guide for the team. Collins could maybe be traded for another young talent (Dalton Knecht?). Overall, Flagg for Markkenan would be the ideal situation for Jazz fans, and perhaps also the Mavericks. 

Spurs I imagine are big game hunting and will dangle their pick to acquire KD or Giannis. To be fair Markkenan for the #2 pick could be an option, though the Jazz are congeseted at point guard, and that trade may favor the Spurs straight-up. A Markkenan, Wemby pairing would be legit, lethal and large. That leaves the 76ers, they are wildcards in this. The Jazz could offer their #5 pick and other assets to acquire it, but by then the options are VJ or Ace, and Ace has some attitude with altitude. VJ, on a sunny day, could fall to #5. The Jazz could consider trading up a single spot with the Hornets, depending on the quanity of salivation they possess over the remaining prospects, but, in general, it seems not worth it.
### Continue to Tank- Trade Down
The Jazz could stock pile more picks, cash, and assets. They then pick lower and select from what falls from the draft tree. A player at 10 could be just as good as at 5. Historically, it almost seems that there are equal odds for a player drafted at 5 and a player drafted in the 11-13 range to make the all-star team. In that light, the Jazz are not losing terribly in moving further back, other than that they lose flexibity and first preference. 
### Continue to Tank- Remain
Utah can hope for one of the top three propsects, outside of Flagg, to fall to them. Harper looks ready to play, but is very unlikely to drop. In addition, the Jazz already have two young point guards on the roster. Baily is nice, but looks to need some patience, as with Cody Williams last year. Jazz leadership probably wonders how patient the Jazz fan base will be. Lastly, and my favorite, is VJ from Baylor. He is predicted as the fourth overall pick in many mock drafts, so he only needs to slide down one draft position. All three players have tremendous upside. Bailey may have the lowest floor. Harper seems reliable, but that was said of Scoot Henderson. VJ has good athleticism  and a solid shot. Losing the top pick was bad, but possibly losing on the chance, by the slide to the fifth draft position, for these next three players is almost devestating. 

Now to discuss possible player alternatives, which is much more likely. With the fifth selection, there are a variety of options for the Jazz. There is a log-jam of equivilantly talented players, atleast it seems that way. Picking fifth gives you first choice, but the talent will be very similar to even the tenth pick. Some scouts see the Jazz leaning between Tre Johnson and Jeremiah Fears. Tre Johnson is a scoring menace, but limited passer. Jeremiah Fear is a scoring point guard. Tre would fit more of a need for the Jazz, but needs to round out his game with stronger defense and better court vision. Jeremiah has good instincts, but needs to shoot more consistently. Next up is a wild card possibility in Kon Knueppel. He could turn out to be a reliable scorer, or perhaps someone constantly picked on in the defensive end. His game could follow, though less emphatically, Doncic, or he could fare the path of the once BYU great Jimmer. Khaman from Duke has good mesurable and amazing athleticism. But the Jazz already have Kessler. If they draft Khaman, most likely they could trade Kessler for good value to a team in need of a center. Derik Queen is young and mean, but he is very grounded and not very tall. He has upside, but also poses a risk. Possibly something the Jazz don't want with the current Cody Williams experiment. Finally there is Kasparas Jakucionis, a solid prospect who perfromed well at Illinios. He is worth a look and probably possesses better passing instincts than Keonte George at the moment. 

### What about 21?

Now this pick can be packaged to help the Jazz move up or to find a solid young player. The latter is probably unlikely. There are a lot of strong prospects at 21, it just depends on where the draft shakes out. Carter Bryant from Arizona is enticing, but very unlikely he slips so far. Liam McNeeley has been tied with the Jazz in multiple projections. He is solid, but not very splashy. Asa Newell could be a dynamic contributer, but again would have to fall. Nique Clifford from Colorado St. did well in the NCAA tournament on both offense and defence and seems to possess a moderate ceiling and floor. He would also need to fall. Egor deserves a mentioned, but I imagine his career will be served better outside of Utah. Overall, this pick should target an area where the Jazz lack good depth. They have a slug of points guards and a solid bigs. So if they could take a chance on a large, defensive wing or maybe a wing that is a reliable shooter, they would be helping themselves out the most.
### Trade Lauri
Sad, but an option after considering the haul Memphis receieved for non-all-star Desmond Bane. The Jazz might sight that, and convince a rival franchise to depart from a considerable draft haul. This would continue the booze cruise and maintain the Jazz in irrelavancy for atleast three more years. A profitable, long-term solution, but with the way the draft lottery works, and the draft in general, there are no guarantees.

## Stop the Tank
This would be a far-fetched scenario and require some real deal magic from the legendary Danny Ainge that has yet to materialize thus far in his Jazz tenure. The Jazz could hunt for KD, but he would never want to play in Utah, plus he is growing too old for the Jazz's young roster. The Jazz might swing for Giannis, yet him and Markkenan paired together might not be enough to contend for a championship, espcially in the west. On the other hand, Giannia is a personality who might stick around and be content with living in Utah. Perhpas, if the Jazz targeted an aging Jrue Holiday, they might have the assets to pull both trades off. Almost guaranteed the Jazz dispose of this year's two first round picks in this situation, even more so if they are even more aggressive by trading for Jaylen Brown, but that is probably too expensive. Booker of the Suns would be worth a call, but almost impossible to conceive. Ja Morant may be available, but I would not consider him a great fit, or enough of a player to establish the Jazz as true contenders. JJJ also could be availble, but again, maybe not the best fit and maybe not enought to push the Jazz to contention.



