# Jazz are struggling

The Jazz needed lottery luck, but alas nothing. After a year of tanking, the odds were in the favor of the Jazz, Wizards, and Hornets to acquire the top picks in the draft. In an unexpected and devastating outcome, the Jazz are placed in the 5th draft position. Well outside Cooper Flagg potential, and outside of the top 4 predicted prospects. After the initial four, there is a hodgepodge of similarly rated players. This equivalence dillutes the top 5 pick to equally valuable as the top ten pick, reducing the trade value of the Jazz's first round pick. So after this utter disappointment what do the Jazz do from here? There are three following proposals:

## Continue to Tank
To continue the direction of the past three seasons would be nothing new; although Jazz nation is starting to lose patience in trusting this process, especially after the results of the lottery. Tanking is not a real guarantee of a top three pick, let alone top one, as the Jazz would have had if the draft followed the rules of the NFL. The lottery system has failed, ever since the rules change to prevent tanking, of promoting the worst team by record to the first draft position. This is a discussion for another day. Overall, it is difficult to embrace tanking as fully when there is actually a greater chance of acquiring the 5th pick (48%), then any of the top four picks.
### Continue to Tank- Trade Up

### Continue to Tank- Trade Down

### Continue to Tank- Remain
They can hope for one of the top three outside of Flagg to fall to them. Harper looks ready to play, but is unlikely to fall. In addition, the Jazz already have two young point guards on the roster. Baily is nice, but looks to need some patience, as with Cody Williams last year. Jazz leadership probably wonders how patient the Jazz fan base will be. Lastly, and my favorite, is VJ from Baylor. He is predicted as the fourth pick in most cases, so he only needs to slide down one draft position. All three players have tremendous upside. Bailey may have the lowest floor. Harper seems reliable, but that was said of Scoot Henderson. VJ has good athleticism  and a solid shot. Losing the top pick was bad, but possibly losing on the chance, by the slide to the fifth draft position, for these next three players is almost devestating. 

Now to discuss possible alternaties, which are more much likely. With the fifth option of players, there are a variety of options for the Jazz. There is a log-jam of equivilantly talented players, atleast it seems that way. Picking fifth gives you first choice, but the talent will be very similar to even the tenth pick. Some scouts see the Jazz leaning between Tre Johnson and Jeremiah Fears. Tre Johnson is a scoring menace, but limited passer. Jeremiah Fear is a scoring point guard. Tre would fit more of a need for the Jazz, but needs to round out his game with stronger defense and better court vision. Jeremiah has good instincts, but needs to shoot more consistently. Next up is a wild card possibility in Kon Knueppel. He could turn out to be a reliable scorer, or someone constantly picked on in the defence end. His game could follow, though less emphatically, Donkic, or he could fare the path of the once BYU great Jimmer. Khaman from Duke has good mesurable and amazing athleticism. But the Jazz already have Kessler. If they draft Khaman, most likely they could trade Kessler for good value to a team in need of a center. Derik Queen is young and mean, but he is very grounded and not very tall. He has upside, but also poses a risk. Maybe something the Jazz don't want with the continuous Cody Williams experiment. Finally there is Kasparas Jakucionis, a solid guy who perfromed well at Illinios. He is worth a look and probably possesses better passing instincts than Keonte George. 

### What about 21?

Now this pick can be packaged to help the Jazz move up or to find a solid young player. The latter is probably unlikely. There are a lot of strong prospects at 21, it just depends on where the draft shakes out. Carter Bryant from Arizona is enticing, but very unlikely he slips so far. Liam McNeeley has been tied with the Jazz in multiple projections. He is solid, but not very splashy, which is expected in this range. Asa Newell could be a dynamic contributer, but again would have to fall. Nique Clifford from Colorado St. did well in the NCAA tournament on offense and defence and seems to possess a moderate ceiling but also moderate floor. He would also need to fall. Egor deserves a mentioned, but I imagine his career will be served better outside of Utah. Overall, this pick should target an area where the Jazz lack good depth. They have a slug of points guards and a solid bigs. So if they could take a chance on a large, defensive wing or maybe a wing that is a reliable shooter, they would be helping themselves out the most.